If you’re suffering from chronic back or neck pain, you know it can make your life very difficult. It can prevent you from doing the things you love, like playing games with your kids, gardening, or simply walking around the neighborhood.

Deuk Laser Disc Repair® is laser spine surgery that cures chronic back and neck pain in a way that is minimally invasive and will have you back on your feet walking, driving, and shopping just a day after surgery.

Deuk Laser Disc Repair® is the most advanced laser spine surgery in the world. It is used as an alternative to dangerous invasive surgeries like total disc replacement and spinal fusion.

This revolutionary procedure was developed by Board Certified Dr. Ara Deukmedjian, a renowned neuro-spine surgeon and a true pioneer in minimally invasive, laser, and endoscopic back and neck pain treatment.

In over 15 years of performing this procedure and with over 1,300 patients treated, there has been a 95% success rate with no complications in any patient.

To find out if you are a good candidate for one of our advanced treatments, please complete our Free MRI Review.

How Deuk Laser Disk Repair® works ?
To get started, Deuk Laser Disc Repair® requires a very small incision, less than a quarter inch long. A cylindrical rod called a dilator is inserted in the small opening to gently spread the muscle to create a small passage and guide through which the surgery is performed endoscopically. The tip of the dilator is advanced into the symptomatic disc through the tear in the annulus where the herniation originates, and a tube called the retractor slides over the dilator and is carefully positioned into the painful disc. The rest of the entire Deuk Laser Disc Repair® surgery will occur inside this narrow tube.
To access the spine, an endoscopic camera is inserted into the tubular retractor to allow the surgeon to guide the laser inside each symptomatic disc. This process ensures that bones and surrounding tissues are not damaged, unlike traditional spinal fusions, microdiscectomy, and artificial discs.
The Holmium YAG laser used in the Deuk laser disc repair® is manipulated accurately with millimeter precision under endoscopic visualization to remove only painful inflammatory tissue from the disc. The laser is precisely used to remove damaged disc material that is causing the pain.
Once the laser has removed the inflamed painful part of the annular tear and the herniated nucleus pulposus, the endoscope and tubular retractor are removed, leaving less than one-quarter inch incision in the skin, which can be closed with a single stitch and a band-aid.
The total time for the Deuk Laser Disc Repair® surgery is one hour, and the patient is in recovery for about 45 to 60 minutes before being released to go home. Hospitalization is not needed and the risks of hospital-based surgery are avoided.
Also, with the Deuk Laser Disc Repair®, there’s no loss of normal movement, and the flexibility of the disc and joint is preserved. With endoscopic Deuk Laser Disc Repair® there is no fusion, metal implants or biological material added to the spine. The procedure is all natural allowing your body to heal the herniated or bulging disc itself.
After the surgery, the Deuk Laser Disc Repair® patient is back home, enjoying life with a speedy recovery allowing normal activities without pain. Another advantage of Deuk Laser Disc Repair® is that no opioids or powerful narcotic painkillers are needed after surgery. Open spine surgeries like microdiscectomy, laminectomy, artificial disc replacement and fusion all cause so much internal trauma that patients are in severe pain after surgery and must take painkillers for weeks after their surgery but not with Deuk Laser Disc Repair®.

A Patient-Focused Spinal Procedure
When you ask patients suffering with chronic back pain or neck pain what is important to them in a treatment, their answers are generally the same. First of all, they want to be out of pain. This is now possible. The Deuk Laser Disc Repair® procedure eliminates on average 99.6% of discogenic pain permanently and with just one treatment. Secondly, patients want a safe surgery with little risk of complications. Because of its unique minimally invasive technique, Deuk Laser Disc Repair® has been performed over 2,100 times in 18+ years at Deuk Spine Institute without a single surgical complication. Next on the list of importance is returning to normal activities, along with work, sports and travel. Our Deuk Laser Disc Repair® patients recover from surgery in just one hour and return to normal activities the next day with minor lifting and bending restrictions. No narcotic or opioid painkillers are needed, bleeding is minimal (less than 3ml on average), surgical pain is usually gone by the next morning and the result is permanent pain relief from disc injuries such as herniated discs, bulging discs, degenerated discs, protruding or extruded discs. Deuk Laser Disc Repair® is simply the best solution worldwide for chronic discogenic back and neck pain. See if you are a candidate with our 